
I might just pull up my script real quick. One second. I'll wait for any time. I've really been tempted to play Monster Hunter Wild. Play what?

Monster Hunter. What's that? It's a game that came out recently. But it's 80 fucking dollars. My god.

They're my 90 fucking dollars. Okay. I'm ready whenever you are. I think so. Okay.

So I just wanna start by thanking you for taking the time to do this interview. Really appreciate it. So kinda told you a little bit what the interview was about, but I'll try to give you a bit more context. It's for a class called interaction design. And, basically, whenever making, like, any sort of, like, product or, like, whenever making anything, I guess, really, the in, like, design, like, you have to do, like, some form of user research and, like, get design insights on, like, what you're making is and how what you're making is gonna be helpful for the people that are gonna use it, I think.

So, ideally, like, I would what we would get out of this is, like, a platform for, like, first generation Bengali immigrants to, like, interact with their community in a way. And so I guess this interview is, like, some sort of user research to, like, help better understand what that platform would look like. I see. Okay. So I don't know if you had any questions for me before, like, I started with the actual questions.

Not really. Cool. So we could start by your name and age. My full name? If you want to share that.

No. I'm good. So my name is Fahim, and I am 23 years old. Okay. I know your full name, but, I will not disclose it for the Yes.

Yes. Yes. Yes. How old did you say you were? 23.

Wow. Right. Yeah. Ung status. Mhmm.

So, do you know what's, like, immigrant generation you are? First gen. No. Yes. Technically, I, like, disclosed this before, like No.

No. No. Because I was, like, second guessing myself. I was, like, first gen. Yeah.

Meaning that your parents were the generation that immigrated to Canada. Okay. Yep. That'd be great. And so if I were to ask you, like, if you were Canadian or Bengali, which identity would you best associate yourself with?

Good question. Bengali. Bengali. And And, why why do you think you best associate yourself with Bengali than Canadian? Because 99% of the time, if I were to engage in any type of conversation, like, even in an interview, which I know they're not allowed to ask, but if ever they were to ask, my first response would not be I'm Canadian.

It'll be I'm Bengali. So you're saying percentage wise, I am Canadian. And, typically, yes, I am Canadian. But my identity is of a Bengali. So is there a reason why you present yourself as Mongali over a Canadian?

I think there's a particular reason. It's more so maybe it's just visually, I look more Bengali. So that's, like, the more logical answer in my head. There's no, like, particular reason why. So, like okay.

I'm I'm gonna try to dig into this a little bit just to, like, like Mhmm. For the sake of the interview. So you're saying, like, in the context of, like, an interview you said, like, you would present yourself, like, as Bengali over Canadian. And then We did. And then you said, like, you don't do it for a particular reason more just so that, like, it's obvious to them where your heritage is from because I see.

It wouldn't make sense that your visual identity doesn't look Canadian. Kind of. Okay. So, like, you can correct me in this if I like if I'm understanding it wrong, but you find it easier for the person talking to you, like, to identify you in your in the ethnicity of a person of color over, like, over being identified as Canadian? Not necessarily.

Okay. How would you best describe it? It's also just instinctively. Like, I see myself more as a Bengali than as a Canadian. Because growing up, that is what like, I grew up on, like, Bengali culture.

Yes. I'm born in Canada. Like, I'm born and raised as a Bengali. So So, yes, there's, like, the outside perspective, but, like Okay. Just in itself.

So both. So, like, easier for the other person to identify, like like, oh, why what kind of brown is he? He's from Bangladesh. Whatever. Right?

Yeah. From Bangladesh. And then the other one would be like and the other reason is like that you reflect the values of someone who is from Bangladesh. Yes. Right.

Okay. Is there anything else I wanted to ask about that? I can get back to it, but we got a lot out of that, which is cool. We're gonna switch gears a little bit and talk a bit more about, like, your concern your consumption of media. Yeah.

So when, like, consuming media, what platforms do you spend the most amount of time on, you think? TikTok and Instagram. Okay. And what types of content do you consume the most? Oh, good question.

Damn. I don't know. I consume too many different types of content. Like, if you had to, like, just give me some bullet points. Like Okay.

So there's anime content, then there's wrestling, there's sports, there's a lot of music Okay. A lot of fashion. Mhmm. A lot of cooking. Okay.

And a lot of travel. Oh, so I would assume, like, the anime and, like, the other stuff is, like, like, streaming service, like, like a Crunchyroll type of situation. The music is like a Spotify, let's say, or Right. Like Apple Music, but I think you use Spotify. And then most of the other ones, is it coming from, like, you said Instagram, TikTok, like so, like, Reels and stuff and TikToks?

Yes. Okay. And, like, how would you, like, quantify, like, how much time you spend, like, watching reels, cons listening to music, and, like, watching anime, like, everything you named, ever watching TikToks? How would you, like, distribute that, you think? A good portion of my day.

Like, as Like, if if I were to be awake for, let's say, ten hours Okay. A good 35 to 40% is gonna be to media consumption. Okay. And which type, like, TikTok? I mean, it's based on TikTok and, like, probably any sort of streamings, like YouTube, Netflix, CrunchFlow.

Okay. Mainly. Cool. Do you find yourself on these platforms that you consume, like, media to, do you find yourself in, like, certain communities? Like or is it, like, only to consume media?

The purpose is to only consume media by, like, the media that I do consume. By default, you end up being a part of a community in a sense. Could you give me an example? So let's say you're watching, an anime. Mhmm.

By default, you end up becoming, like, let's say, One Piece. You're a fan of One Piece. Yeah. You're immediately associated to this community of, like, One Piece fans who are Yeah. Seen differently or whatever.

Like, wrestling community Right. Right. Right. Like Like, something like that. Do you do you find yourself, like, reaching out to those communities and interacting with them?

I don't personally interact with them, but, like, I will look at comments to see how other people's opinions are based on the same thing that I'm consuming. Oh, okay. So like a indirect interaction. And that you would do, like, on platforms like Instagram and TikTok, like you mentioned earlier or in other We, yeah, basically. Other YouTube comments or maybe Twitter.

Right. So you would say the way you engage with the communities that, like, you're most interested in would be through threads of, like, replies or comments, let's say. Yeah. Essentially. Okay.

Cool. And that's that you think is, like, the the most common way you interact with, those, like, certain communities? Yep. Cool. That's really cool to know.

Okay. So now coming back a little bit to your, like, Bengali, like, identity since you and yourself, like like, identify as more Bengali than Canadian, how do you think you most interact with your Bengali community? I think it depends on the people. Because me, myself, like, I avoid kind of the community itself mainly due to how, like, overall toxic it kind of is. Mhmm.

But, like, with the ones I am close with, like, I have a lot more like, a lot of stuff in common from growing up that I can talk about with them. Right. I like just speaking the same language and whatever. Okay. Stuff like that.

How could you maybe, like, do you think maybe in the past in your childhood, you had more interaction with the Bengali with your Bengali community? Like, or has it maybe changed over time? Yes. 100%. Like, when I was younger, there was, like, community picnics that I would always go to that was super fun.

And, like, growing up, obviously, I had classes at the mosque. Like, 90% of the students are Bengali, so a lot of interactions were happening there. Right. So it's like it's just something that changed while growing up. Like, more stuff that I learned Right.

As I matured. That, like, kind of maybe put a distance from it. Right. Do you find that, like, a lot of the the events that made you, like, interact with the Bangalid community were often in, like, religious spaces? Do you think, like, that played a big role or not that much?

Not entirely. There's still some, like, community events I went to that had no religious, like, groundwork. Oh, okay. That's cool to know. So you would say, like, most of it was, like, outside of, like, religious spaces and some of it was in religious spaces?

Okay. Cool. That's good to know. If so now, like, if we were to think about how, if we were to think about how you would interact with the Bengali community, like, in the context of a platform, how do you think you would envision that? Like, any of the platforms that you did mention earlier.

Can you elaborate? Like, as in like, you mentioned, like, in your childhood that you were maybe more interacting or engaging with the with your, like, Bengali community, whereas now you're not. Right? Mhmm. Is there any way that, like, any of the platforms that you do, like, engage with, like, pretty often can make it so that you would want to, like, interact with your Bengali community?

I mean, yeah. Like, if I were to find more people that I relate to more, like, that are Bengali, then obviously, I'd interact a lot more because I feel like I have more grounds to, like, be open with with them, stuff like that. Okay. And, I guess I'm trying to be like I know it's hard to be concrete with this, but, like, we can work towards that. Like, how do you think, like, that would look like?

Is it like, you talked about, like, you know, some people you enjoy still being able to talk in Bengali, you know, and relate to stuff. Is it like like wanting to, like, share memes or, like, is it just, like, wanting to, like, comment on each other's, like, posts? Or is it, like, how exactly do you see, like, that interaction? I mean, yeah, it's mostly good. Just talk more sharing memes, actually engage in conversation and talk about life, maybe comment on their pictures, like, joke around, and, like, say stuff in Bengali in Bengali that other people wouldn't understand, but we do.

Right. But it's mostly, like, you look for someone who, in a sense, has, like, similar situation to you where you wouldn't feel judged and you wouldn't judge them essentially and make the interactions more seamless and open. Right. Because that does seem to be, like, the biggest detractor from you, like, maybe interacting with, your Bangali community, like, in a more organic way. Is that, like, there's that, like, judgment, like, toxic factor as well?

And so Yes. You know, the platform would have to, in some way, like, instill that, like, there is, like, a judgment free zone type of thing. Yeah. Exactly. Okay.

Cool. Yeah. Do you feel like that like, I know, like, I'm, I'm making some of the, like, like, dot connections here, but, do you find that, like, fair, or do you did you wanna add more to that? No. No.

That pretty much sums up what I said. Cool. I'm gonna ask a little bit about, like, your religious beliefs slash practices, if that's something you're comfortable sharing. Sure. Cool.

It's okay. You're yeah. You didn't share your full name, so you won't be able to ask. So Thanks. How is a a childhood friend in your class?

How would you describe your religious practice? I believe, but I'm not very, like, a big practitioner. Okay. So you would say you have belief, but you don't practice the religion? Yes.

Okay. And, like, what does that, like, mean in the sense of, like, your your daily, like, your daily life? Well, it's, basically just the fact that, like, I believe in everything the religion stands for and what's, like, instilled in the future, what we're supposed to do. But then it comes to contrast with me identifying as a Bengali, but kind of living more as a Canadian nowadays. Okay.

Which isn't, like, just the western, which is in the religious way, essentially. Okay. So you're saying that, like, you you believe in, like, the religious principles, but in some ways, it's harder to apply in, like, your Western, like, daily routine? Yes. Yes.

I've been influenced too much. Much. Right. Right. Okay.

Would you say that, like, you engage in, like, religious practices? Sometimes. Yes. And, like, what kind of religious practice would you engage in? So, like, fasting, like, I'll do every year no matter what.

Then there's, like, I'll pray family prayers when I am available. Mhmm. And then sometimes, like, I'll pray with my dad as well. Okay. Is there a particular like, outside of, like, just, like, religious outside of just, like, this is what God asks of you.

Right? Is there, like, you as a person find, like, a reason why you do those things even though, like, you might not participate in, like, all of those religious practices? Because deep down on the inside, I know that is right and, like, I should work myself to becoming a religious person again. I'm just, like, a lot more like, it's a lot easier said than done. Okay.

So you you the reason why you still engage in those practices is because, like, you believe that in some ways, like, they can be helpful to you. Is that is that what I'm getting at? In a sense, yes. As in, like, they'll hopefully slowly, like, bring me back to being a more, like, religious person. And what do you I don't wanna let go of all of it because if I let go of all of it, then I'm, like, fully just not in that religion, essentially.

Okay. And, like, what do you get out of that as, like, a person, like, in your day to day? How does that like, do you feel more fulfilled? Like, how does that make you feel that you're more of a religious person? It's like fifty fifty.

I do feel more fulfilled than I'm than I feel guilty as well. So it's like a mix of both. Right. Do you think that being religious is in some way, like, correlated to your identity as a Bengali person? Fifty fifty.

Like, yes, it is since, like, Bengali's are, like, the Muslim people. Mhmm. But, also, I had a fallout with religion, like, earlier, but then, like, a solid two, three years, I did, like, get back into religion, which had which had nothing to do with my identity as a Bengali person. Mhmm. It was more so just me rediscovering the religion Right.

And stuff like that. I know you mentioned, like, like, praying with your dad and stuff. Do you find that, like, maybe practicing prayer is, like, a good way of, like, having that moment with, like, close family members to, like, get together and, like, do something together. Is that is that ever, like, part of the reason why, like, you would go to, like, a Friday prayer knowing that, like, you get to be surrounded by people that are, like, from that identify the same way as you or even just, like not even that many people. Even just, like, being able to, like, go there with your dad maybe.

Is that something that you take into account ever? Yeah. 100%. In what way can you elaborate? I mean, like, it does, like, give me an opportunity to spend time with my dad.

Okay. And, like, family. I don't know. Like, let's say, if Ramadan, when you're, like, opening your fast, you eat with your family and stuff. So, like, a time for you to actually get together.

When during the majority of the year, people don't really, like, eat their families, whatever, because they're outside or eating in their rooms and blah blah blah blah blah. Yeah. Like, even you would say, like, even just being able to, like, eat your parents' food is, like like, that gives you it gives you an opportunity to do that in the first place type of thing? Yeah. Cool.

I'm glad we were able to, like, like, get to that. I think that's really insightful. Not much longer. I won't keep you for the whole night. I know you have a busy day ahead of you tomorrow.

Last two main questions that might come into more questions. But, how would you say, like, the media you consume affects the way you engage with the Bengali community? Do you think that has any correlation? Do you think it has no correlation? I don't think it has any correlation personally.

Okay. So do you you would say, like, it has no effect in the way you engage with community? Yes. It doesn't affect it at all. Like, for me, there's no correlation.

Okay. And so now, like, we're able to discuss some things about, like, like, religious spaces and, like, how you find yourself interacting most with, like, your Bengali community. I think we were able to, like, unfold some of that too. Right? Like, being able to maybe hang out with your parents when you don't have as much of an excuse to, stuff like that.

Do you if you were to, like, envision an app that caters to the Deshie community, like, how how would you envision it in a way that, like, doesn't necessarily have to be, like, like, religious based. Right? Because Mhmm. Like, in some ways, maybe, like, the judgment of not being, like, very, like, all the way religious is what keeps you from that toxic is what keeps you away from the community. But then, like, it's kinda what brings you back to, like, being closer to your community by, like, wanting to, like, pray with, like, your close family or, like, wanting to, like, eat food with your family, like, as a cultural thing.

Like, how do you how would you say, like, a platform or an app could, like, balance those two in your mind? Honestly, it would probably be an app where you don't know, like, the person's religious status or how religious they are or whatever. Okay. And so, like, religion, like, shouldn't be brought up, you think? Yeah.

I don't see. Yeah. But then do you not think that you would lose some of, like, the reasons why you would, like, come back to that community that are, like, religious based? Like, either, like, you're fasting, you say. Like, do you not think that would neglect that?

Not necessarily. Because I don't because for me personally personally, sorry, it's, like, I don't consume media or, like, let's say, a social media platform or app. Like, I wouldn't do it to meet new people, like, in person or to get closer to them. Okay. They'll also be for, like, for entertainment or enjoyment.

Right. Okay. So let's, like, take it out of the paradigm of a, like, social media app or even, like, a platform, like, in the way, like, that we would think about it. Right? Like, Instagram and TikTok.

If you wanted to meet, if you wanted to meet, like, other, people that's in like, engage in, like, the religion but are, like, sort of, like, secular Muslims too, let's say, that don't, like, that don't fully commit to the religion. Like, how would you want to meet those types of people? I don't know. Is is, like, is that something you would you wanna meet those types of people in the first place, or do you not care to to meet them? Not necessarily because I don't think I would care.

Okay. So you you don't find it, like, like, interesting enough to want to meet people that are similar to you in that way? No. Like, I'm not interested in meeting someone more like me. But if I do, I'm like, oh, that's like this.

But, like, I'm not actively looking or care about finding more people that are like me. Okay. Okay. That's interesting to know. So you do you think, like, do you think that the interactions with the community that you have is, like, enough in the sense that, like, you're okay with it just being, like, all only happening during religious events.

Like, that's enough for you. And, like, after that, like, you don't find, like, that big of a need to engage with the same community? Like, is that fair to say? Yeah. Pretty much.

Like, religious events or, what's it called? Like, weddings of, like, people that are close to my parents and stuff. And that's about it for me. Okay. Cool.

Well, I'm really glad, like, we got to, like, do this interview even, like, outside of just, like, the project thing. I think it's pretty cool. Like, we're able to, like, have this discussion in some ways too. I got to know you a bit better. Yeah.

If you don't have any questions for me, I think that's it. No. Cool. Thank you. Fine.

No worries. Hope you get a good grade.