
My god. You're stressing me. Bro. I don't like interviews. It's chill.

It's fine. Okay. Is this the wrong fucking script? Tabak. What the fuck?

How many questions do you have? It's like a Zen, but it's nothing crazy. Sorry. I will have to delay it by five seconds. Didn't find the right script.

When's your next shift? Tomorrow night. Yeah. Do you get paid more? You get paid more?

All night? Yeah. Nice. Hell, yeah. Then I got lucky finding that.

I did not name this. Right? Okay. Cool. I'm still technically recording.

Cool. Okay. Well, I just wanna start off the interview by thanking you for doing this interview. I know I had to bug you a couple of times to get you to do this interview, but really happy that you were able to make it. If you're if you're okay with sharing, can we start with your name and age?

Okay. My name is Zapshana, and I'm 27 years old. 27. Shit. Okay.

I know. Okay. So I kinda like I was able to give you a brief context of, like, why I'm doing this interview. I'm mostly trying to do this research amongst people of Bengali heritage. We kind of clarify, like, my misunderstanding of immigrant generation.

And and I guess I'll just ask you now, what immigrant generation are you? I'm the second generation. Cool. Cool. Okay.

And I guess my first question would be well, first real question would be like if you were to identify yourself like, would you identify yourself as Canadian or Bengali? Oh my god. Nobody ever asked me that. Seriously, everybody always asks me where are you from? Not where are you?

Okay. I guess both. I guess both because, I don't feel like I can just say, oh, I'm Canadian here and not get the the end the question of, okay, but where are you actually from? Yeah. You know, because I don't have a skin tone.

But I'm also not just purely Bengali because when I go there, I'm more of a stranger. For sure. So like, if somebody asked you, which which answer would you give though? If I was Bengali or Canadian? If somebody asked like, oh, like, where are you from?

Oh my god. Okay. At at the hospital when people ask me, I literally answer my parents are from Bangladesh. Ah, I see. So you don't I do not say I am Bengali or I am Canadian.

I say my parents are Bosman. Is there a particular reason you choose to answer it that way? Well, because I don't want I don't wanna give in to that stereotypical, culture. Like, it's not in my favor, and it's not in the favor of my people to just I don't know. When I ask people where they're from, I don't ask where are you from.

I ask, like, where are you originally from or where are your parents from? Like, are you born here? You know? I'm not gonna assume maybe he's half half. I don't know.

So I think I think it's just not to give in into people's maybe stereotypical thoughts or probably even racist. Like, I don't know. Okay. Fair enough. So I kinda wanted to ask you a little bit about, like, the media you consume.

Like, on a day to day basis, like, what type of media do you consume and, like, on what platform do you spend most of your time consuming it? For sure Facebook or Instagram. Okay. And And, well, a lot I think equal time or a lot of the time on both. Like, I literally just switch between the two.

Okay. And what types of content do you consume the most? Cooking, brown people memes, funny stuff. A lot of family stuff recently, like families, babies, and- I wonder why. Okay.

Yeah. Do you ever find that, like, when consuming, like, these sorts of, like, media, you find yourself wanting to, like, associate to a certain community, or is it purely, like, of entertainment value? A %. I wanna feel closer to my community. Like, I I don't have as much connections to them as I once used to in my life.

Okay. So, like, two days ago, I watched a Bollywood movie because I used to do that when I was young all the time. Yeah. And, like, I've stopped and I felt like, oh, wow. This is, like, leaving from my lifestyle.

This is like leaving from who I am and I don't really want to. Even if it it's kinda shit, the Bollywood movies right now are kinda shit. I still watch it to to, like, keep myself as real. Okay. So then in some ways, the way you choose the content of what you consume, like, is related to, like, like, your your way of interacting.

Keeping myself connected. Yeah, keeping yourself connected to the community that like Yeah. That you were brought up in. Is that fair? Yeah.

Yeah. Cool. Okay. So my next question is in what ways do you think you most interact with your Bengali community? Sorry.

Can you repeat that? So in what ways do you think you most interact with your Bengali community? How do I interact with my Bengali community? It's very diverse. Mhmm.

I keep a relationship with my family. Mhmm. That's Bengali community. I try to keep the food alive in my lifestyle. Right.

So Bengali food, and constantly trying to learn even if it's really difficult. And that implies go I know it's, like, super basic, but going to brown Bengali stores Oh, shit. Okay. And that, you know, you you see a lot of Bengali uncles and yeah. You don't necessarily have to talk to them, but, you know, you're there.

He knows you're there. He knows you're Bengali. I know he's Bengali. We have this understanding, and that's we keep it at that. Okay.

So you find some sort of, like, belonging to go to the I'm assuming like these Bengali grocery stores to like Yeah. Like pick out certain foods that you want to cook with and just having a place where you shop with other Bengali people is a way that you feel like you Yeah. Like engage with your community? Yeah. Cool.

Do you find that, like, the way you interact with your Bangladeshi community, like, has evolved or changed, like, from how it was when you were, like, a child, when you were a teen, into your adulthood, like or in your twenties? Like, how do you think how would you say percent. How would you best describe it has changed? Oh my god. I can, like, write a dissertation on this.

This is your platform to do so. Feel free to dump anything you have in mind. Well, it's a it's a it's not a linear thing. I think my views and how I felt about my community changed throughout all my life yet, and I believe it's gonna continue to change. When I was younger, obviously, I didn't think very deep.

It wasn't a problem. My my uncles, my uncle, everybody that I I interacted with looked like me, talked like me. Yes. When you get out of home, the it's other people. It's the other people that have a vision or a perception of what you people are.

So they they're the ones who share their thoughts on what they think your family does. What people are asking you, oh, you guys do this? Oh, you guys eat that? Oh, you guys eat with your hands? What the house what what's up with that?

Yeah. You know? And so you associate with being Bengali very easy. You are Bengali, and now you have to explain yourself. Sure.

Yeah. And then as I think teen and young adult, you you come to peace with it. Like, you're like, okay. Yes. I have to explain myself, but you you find out that you also have to explain yourself to your family and your community because suddenly you've acquired, the that are also theirs, that are also, like, quote, unquote white peoples.

Yeah. You know? So at some point, I feel like we we become two Mhmm. Two different beings. No.

I don't know. No. Not two different beings. I don't know. I don't know how to explain this.

I think, like, something that a lot of people of, like, second generation, especially Bengalis that can relate to is, like, having that double identity in some ways. Is that what you're trying to imply? Yes. Yes. Absolutely.

So I feel like for me personally, that double identity wasn't always present. And then teen and and young adult, it kind of developed more and more. And in my current, life situation, I would say I respect a lot of things about that community, but I also hate a lot of things about it. Fair enough. You know?

And same goes for the other way. Oh, okay. There's a lot of things I like about it. There's a lot of things I don't want in my house. Right.

There's a lot of things that you enjoy, like, outside of that community and but that you can that you have your reservations for Yes. And, like, vice versa to the Bengali community. Yes. Cool. Speaking of that, like, double identity, do you find that, like, even now, like, later on in your life compared to how it was maybe in your, like, teen or young adulthood, like, do you find that you still carry some sort of double identity in some ways?

Yes. I think I'll always carry it. How does that manifest in your life nowadays? So just a context of, like, my situation, I'm married to Quebecois. Mhmm.

So, obviously, it's a personal piece of information, but I think it makes sense to to your question. But when we had first started dating or or or somewhere in there, there was this identity question and I I I told him that I I think I'll always feel like I'll have to defend this half of myself, you know, because I consider him one full Quebecois and I consider me one half Quebecois and one one half Bengali. And I feel like this quarter in the relationship, the quarter of me that's Bengali in this relationship will always have to fight a little bit harder to stay alive, to stay, like, nourished. Yeah. So it's difficult, I would say, given the choice of partner like, of life partner I've chosen.

Mhmm. But I think for someone I mean, the other way around, I think is true. I think someone who's Bengali, who chooses to date someone who's Bengali, will have to give an effort on keeping their Western identity. Yeah. That's fair.

Yeah. I hadn't thought about it like that, but that's very true. Bringing it back to, like, a little bit of, like, what we were talking about earlier with, like, the type of media you consume, do you do you find that there's any particular platform where you could best interact with a Bengali community? Not really. And I know we're out there.

Yeah. I not really. No. Actually, it's actually quite difficult. Before I I met my husband, I was like, okay.

Even if I wanted to, like, find myself a Bengali man, where the hell would I go? Except apart from marriages, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Like other people's marriages.

Yeah. So, okay. So, it seems like, like online platforms don't seem to like curate a space for like a certain Bengali community especially like that second generation that we're talking about. Like I kind of wanted to talk about religion if that's okay with you. Do you find that like how would you describe your religious practice in general?

Well, I describe it as a non Muslim Muslim. Non Muslim Muslim. So, like, I think it I'd have to look up the definition just to be sure, but There is none. There is none. I think it's, like, called a secular Muslim, maybe.

I think I I practice a lot. I am in in an in between zone Okay. Because I don't wanna do everything that, Bengali Muslim do. Mhmm. But I don't like not being part of that Muslim community.

I think it's a completely different community. Muslim people and Bengali people are not the same thing. Okay. What do you where I brought I was brought up I was brought up as a Bengali Muslim. Yeah.

And I think I I have to different like, I came at a point where I have to differentiate the the both because they're not the same thing. Cool. What do you what do you find that you guess out of, like, keeping certain, like, religious practices to still be connected with that Muslim Well, I believe in God, so it keeps me connected. Mhmm. And but I don't when the whole, like, marriage situation happened and then the decision of, like, okay, if you married this non Muslim guy, what does that make of you?

I had to do a lot of internal search of, like, what are you really Muslim? And I'm and I'm thinking, we did some research. We read the Quran, and, like, a lot of the things didn't make sense to me. But a lot of the things made sense also. So I'm trying to cling on the things that make sense Mhmm.

The most I can think of. So, like, the five pillars for me are do you even want me to give you details? Or I mean, yeah. Yeah. Okay.

So the five pillars for me makes sense. Mhmm. Now do I have to pray like, physically, the movements of the prayers Mhmm. Do I have to do that to show gratitude? I'm not sure.

Okay. I believe in praying, and but I think the praying has, like, a sense that is not the same. Okay. You know? Zakat's money, I %, like, agree.

Okay. Yes. We pay taxes here, but it's just because and, like, taxes are like Zakat, in a sense that it's to give it back to the poor. Yes. But taxes is for this country, and Zakat is not.

Like, Zakat is specifically for people out or out of this first world country Okay. To help out. So I think that makes sense. So exactly. So if you go one by one for all the plural pillars of Islam, it all makes sense to me.

Mhmm. And then the rest that comes from it, I don't really associate or I don't I don't know. Okay. I'm feeling That's a fair, like, like, that's a fair way to try to, like, understand. I feel like you went about it in, like, a very procedural way to, like, dissect one by one what it meant to you, what it might have not meant to you.

Yeah. That's really cool that, like, I didn't know that you had, like, gone to that extent to figure that out yourself. I have to because it's it's so big. Like, your parents, you grew up, you they ask you to fight the prey with your cousin. They ask you to go to the mosque.

They ask you to do this. They ask you to do that. And then you you're never taught anything. You're always taught to just, okay. Listen and you're and, like, learn this Surah and learn this and learn that and go to read the Quran with your teacher.

Yeah. And at some point, it's supposed to be your life. Yeah. You have no idea how it became your life. Yeah.

I guess this is kinda this kinda segues into, like, my next question a little bit too. It's like, how do you think, like, your engagement with, like, certain religious practices has changed from, like, how you were younger to now? I I never prayed, honestly. I always just lied about it. Yeah.

No. Sometimes I prayed for real. Okay. I read the Quran a fair bit. I I stopped all of that.

I don't know when it happened, probably in teenage years. I stopped all of that. I don't read the Quran. I don't pray now. I I do.

Okay. Because it's fun, because it's nice, it's a good spirit. It cleanses your body. You eat. I don't I'm not talking about the fried stuff, but you eat good food to help you.

Do you find that during Hamadan that there's, like, a sense of, like, there's, like, a lot of people in the world doing this with me at the same time, and there's, like Yeah. Some sort of belonging there? A %. At work, there's, I think four people in total four to five people in total that do the Ramadan with me, and we feel I think it's we feel we all feel the same way in, like, this comfort Yeah. Of us doing it together.

Yeah. It's cool. I like it. And everybody understands what we're doing, and everybody you know? Like, no bad feeling.

Just, damn, you guys are so brave. It's like I don't know. But the Quran part, the the other day my friend was, because she she she's Muslim. Anyways, her life story is is a bit weird, but she didn't she never really learned the Quran. She's Muslim, but in adult and now she's in adulthood and she's like, you know what?

Now I want to, so she's learning. Mhmm. So she has this app, and she's learning. And then I realized that I really don't remember. Like, I don't I don't remember how to read it.

Jesus. It's my core somewhere. I swear. It's in my core. It's my brain fundamentals.

So I read a couple, and then it came back to me slowly, and I was like, damn. I can't lose this. I want it back. So I think I'm gonna download the app and I'm gonna read it because I don't wanna lose that appeal. Damn.

Okay. That's interesting. Okay. I kinda wanted to pick at, like, one thing that you didn't mention about Hamadan, and I'll relate it to, like, a bigger question after. Like, it sounds like at least even with, like, your like, the people around you, the the ones that do practice Hamadan, like it seems as though like whatever practices people might not keep, Ramadan is like one of those that like people are take that extra step to keep in their lives.

It sticks the most. Yeah. It sticks the most. Do you think that like how how related do you think it is that like you like practice certain religious practices to still keep within like that circle of community that you want to belong in? Like How How what?

Like as in Okay, let me rephrase this. Like how do you think that one of the main ways you connected with a Bengali community was through, like, religious practices or religious events? Yes. Yeah. Like, can you %.

Eid was the biggest celebration. Yeah. Eid is our Christmas. Yeah. This is where you meet.

You see your all fam sometimes when you when you don't even see some of your family for all your you see them on Eid, you know? Eid comes comes after Ramadan. Eid is, like, the most religious celebration there is. So a %. Yeah.

Like, it's for sure really. So I think yeah. I I guess you're right that in a sense we it's fixed the most because it's rooted in us that it's what, connects us back to our family, connects us back to the community. So maybe. Yeah.

It makes sense. So then it seems like even though, like, there are certain, like, practices in religion that you might not yourself associate yourself with, like, you still try to keep certain things like hamadan or, like, celebrating Eid to just to be able to like connect back with a community that like you felt fostered you in some way. Like is that fair to say? Yeah. Cool.

Yes it is. That's really interesting. I'll move on to the next question. My god, why is that interesting? It's just interesting as, like, a general thing.

Like, like, I feel like we're we're able to get to that, like, after some a few questions together. So Yeah. That's cool. Let's see. I don't even know if this is relevant anymore.

Okay. I'll go like maybe straight to the point now. Like if you were to like envision a platform or, like, actually, no. Let me even take it out of the context of, like, platform, like, maybe abstract that a little bit. It's like, if you were to want to meet other secular Muslims like yourself, do you think there is an opportunity to do so outside of just like celebrating it through religious events?

Not that I know of. Not that I know it exists. Okay. And if you would like, is that something that you would want to try to, like, be part of? If so, how do you see yourself being best part of that?

I don't know. I don't know if we would go for conversations or events. Okay. Or or, like, if we spend a lot of time on Facebook and Instagram, which is actually the case for everybody my age. Yeah.

Honestly, like a a group chat, like a group, like a page Okay. Dedicated to us. Do you think, like, a Facebook page in some way is, like, engaging enough for you to want to come back to it and, like, still, like, update people on, like, stuff like that. Do you have any sense of doing that? I think so in a sense that, sure.

There's a bun there are a bunch of strangers. Honestly, that's I think that's a that's tricky though because it's a bunch of messages of faces we never see. Yeah. So probably not because it would be like any other page where people do people say anything they want. Yeah.

We get away from the purpose of it. So there would need to be, like, some sort of way to, like, like, curate a community in some ways maybe. Like like, make it so that, like, they have to, like, meet certain requirements, to, like, be able to, like, enter that community maybe. Like, those are the things that For sure. To me.

I think so. Yeah. Definitely second generation. Anybody that's first generation, forget it. They don't know what we're talking about.

Yeah. So it has to be, like, specific enough to, like, at least generation wise or even just, like, culturally relevant, like and it's, like, specificity to, like, make sense. Like, as Well, we have to be mindful also to be inclusive because, not all you know, me and my sister are both from the same family, from the same surroundings, from the same environment, not the same education, not the same personal life experiences, but we're both second generation. Yeah. And we did not end up the same thing.

Right. Both in terms of connecting with the community and also in terms of religious faith. Yeah. And let's say if, like, someone that might not have, like, like, let's say if someone like your sister were to, like, be part of that community, does it make you feel like you don't want to share as much or does it have to be specifically, like, how your life experience was? Very good question.

Sometimes I feel like I would be judged. Right. But I don't think it's right not to have them there either. Yeah. Because I don't feel like it's a full it's a fully representative.

Yeah. Fair? Yeah. I get that. So I think there's a few things, like, going on.

It's like there's that, like, sense of, like, judgment that, like, has that has always been, like, part of that community that, like, you and I, like, have both, like, tried to escape in some ways. I think a lot of second generation, like, Magali immigrants can relate to that. But then there's also the fact that, like, like, like, what you relate to might not be, like, specific to what everyone that categorizes themselves as second generation immigrant also relates to. So then there has to be a way to, like, make all those subgroups within that feel like there's still belonging of a community, maybe. So those are two things that's like I see.

And then like maybe there's a feeling of like, well, I'm like maybe sharing my personal life with people that like I don't know right. And so it's like it has to be removed from like in some ways your personal identity, but still relatable in some ways to to each other. And I think that's why maybe like the platforms like Facebook and just like sharing memes of like Bengali stuff, like those are ways that like I think people like are able to relate to each other in ways that like doesn't expose themselves, you know? Yeah. Exactly.

So it's like those are the types of types of content that you want to share and you're like well it doesn't have to specifically be like my situation. Right? It's not I'm not exposing my personal life, but it's a common enough situation where like other people can relate and have like like relatable funny moments. Right? Yeah.

Okay. So like we were able to, like Or difficult moments. You know? If somebody comes to me and they're like, oh, I don't know what to do. You've done this before.

My family don't want me to be with this guy, but I really want to and blah blah blah. So, you know, I'll tell you my side and you do what you do. Yeah. But you'll know that you somebody has been there already. Yeah.

So, like, maybe in some ways, like, like, some, like, thread, like, commenting on, like, certain posts that maybe people, like, make. And then, like, you're able to, like, create threads with people commenting on other type of comments too. Yeah. Yeah. Those are, like, some solid ideas we're able to come up with just from this conversation.

Mhmm. I think that's pretty cool. But, yeah, I think that's most of the questions. I think a lot of the questions we're able to answer, like, while, like While talking. While talking too.

What is what a good interview, which is a good solid interview. I guess last real quick answer or question, I mean, would be if you were to give yourself, give your younger self any, piece of advice in navigating their Bengali identity, what would it be? Oh my god. Learn your mother's recipe. Yeah.

I don't wanna tell her too many advices because I'm scared that it might change stuff. I don't think I wanna change anything. Fair enough. I think the the the path that myself, my younger self took is really, really important for me to end up where I end up. There's so many possibilities of places you could end up Mhmm.

And so many life changing choices you have to make as a Button valley from a strict family. Mhmm. I don't no. I don't wanna talk to myself to my younger self. Okay.

So you believe that, like, wherever Like, I don't want her to make the wrong choice. Fair enough. Okay. I think we'll leave it at that. Thank you.

Sorry. It wasn't very helpful. No. No. I think I mean, that's totally fine of an answer.

Thank you so much for doing the interview and, No worries. Hopefully I'm able to get some valuable stuff out of this conversation. Thank you.